# Amazon S3

Some use cases for S3 are:

- Backup and storage
- Disaster recovery
- Archives
- Hybrid cloud storage
- Application hosting
- Media hosting
- Data lakes & big data analytics
- Software delivery
- Static websites

S3 allows people to store objects (files) inside of "buckets" (directories).

## S3 Security

An S3 object can be accessed if either the IAM permissions allows it OR the resource policy allows it AND no explicit DENY is present.

## S3 Websites

S3 can host static websites and have them accessible on the world wide web.

If we get a 403 (forbidden) error when trying to access our website it's likely we've forgotten to set a bucket policy allowing for public reads.

## S3 Versioning

S3 Versioning is enabled at a bucket level.

It is best practice to version our buckets because doing so allows us to protect against unintended deletes and to roll back to previous versions of files if necessary.

## S3 Access Logs

For audit purposes it's possible to log all access to S3 buckets.

This can be helpful for finding the root cause of an issue, auditing S3 usage, viewing suspicious patterns, etc.

## S3 Object Lock & GlacierVault Lock

Both _S3 Object Lock_ & _GlacierVault Lock_ utilize a WORM (Write Once Read Many) model.

With _S3 Object Lock_ we can block an object from being modified or deleted for a specific amount of time.

_GlacierVault Lock_ is similar, but with the added benefit that we can also lock the policy for future edits so that not even admins can modify or delete objects.

This is helpful for compliance and data retention.

## AWS Snow Family

Snowball devices are offline devices that allow us to perform data migrations.
